layout: post
title: "Photographs—dry carrier of juicy memories"
author: "A.S.K.M Sayeef Uddin"
categories: journal
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: wooden.jpg

We spend moments, we forget, no means how painstakingly we try to remember. Our minds can’t maintain our memories with the original exactness. The precision of our memories decreases as time advances. Unless you’re one of the 61 hyperthymesia patients, you can’t recall your memories precisely that took place years ago and didn’t carry any significance throughout years but now. Memories get altered, modified, and often broken, so does nature followed by the time. Texts, photographs, videos, etc. various mediums are decent to stash your memories for you not calling time a variable. Memories you carry in your head modify with time, so time belongs to a variable here. With time, your brain memories continue getting triteness which these tools don’t by keeping data constant regardless of time. In this essay, I would rather focus on photographs, not discussing much involving the other mediums, i.e. texts, but will stick a bunch of contrasts if there demands.

The historical brief analysis seems proper to start with. Back then, we humans didn’t necessarily have photographs, instead, paintings. Well, reality-based paintings were perfect pre-modern analogs of photographs. In ancient times, cave paintings were popular to paint everyday objects regarding their lifestyle, which allows us to know enough about their lives. They drew the animals they hunted, weapons they used, stuff they wore and the food they ate. We further discovered many enigmatic drawings inside various prehistoric caves, being ambiguous concerning their subject. Linguistics found prehistoric alphabets and picture-based languages painted inside the caves. So skimming through the prehistoric era of painting, we can thereby conclude that paintings and cave drawings were substantial for them and their lives. Paintings were highly correlated with their everyday and long-term lives. Cave drawings were more of their need than a hobby. Let’s forward to the pre-feudal and medieval ages when cave paintings turned obsolete. Art, in the meantime, became well spread and to some extent turned into professions. Artists painted lots of portrait pictures of numerous people, especially kings and public figures. Not everyone could afford to paint a self-portrait. We can match medieval portrait arts to today’s portrait camera photographs. Painters also drew myriads of nature-centric and abstract arts, which may compare to landscapes and modern electronic drawings. The flamboyance of medieval artists made these arts feasible, as obligation wasn’t the only reason to draw. Later, the renaissance began, making the aesthetic reason behind paintings more visible, which inspired countless souls to become a painter. During medieval times, the antipathy that fundamentalist Catholics didn’t allow all varieties of art kept painting somewhat restricted which problem dispelled followed by the renaissance. Abstract and gratuitous art drew more attention, earned more popularity. Further description is needless as we all know concerning the glorious renaissance era or art which the enlightenment age also supported. In modern days, painting isn’t limited to papers. Many painters draw ridiculous paintings using their computers and tablets. Graphic designers make animations and high-graphic games as computers and other devices have an enormous accuracy rate compared to papers. We all know: cameras yet replaced portrait paintings obtaining a high degree of accuracy. It’s natural that new and more efficient alternatives replace the old techniques, always.  

Anti-technologists claim photographs as against our nature but that’s hardly true. Yes, memories themselves are the most precious things we experience, but we need—to store and recall. There’s nothing amiss with that given that it doesn’t disrupt the natural stream. In classical physics, all objects contain memories of its initial state, and when it interacts with another object, it reacts according to its initial state and indeed, memories have been stored. Think—a particle having a certain charge, moving with a given velocity enters a magnetic field. So how will they interact? Well. they can’t just call each other and discuss framing a reasonable interaction, but they’ll perform exactly what we know doing our calculations using their information: what does it imply? They keep their information stored and nature uses their old data to settle an interaction. Physics is nature. Real nature also stores its information for the future. Say a volcano has erupted, thereupon lava has spread over a large area, eating everything through its way. A few hours have passed, the lava now turns solid staying inside that area: it’s a sign. Nature itself saved the memories of the explosion. Taking pictures—it’s also a way to store data of our past which we may recall later; it doesn’t contradict nature. We experience, we store, we recall: that’s cool, that’s real. Extremist stances against photograph just reveal one’s prejudice against the course of nature. 

Photographs are fine ways to recall our juicy memories. It offers an amalgam of pleasure and nostalgia. Photos let us hold a bright and vivid picture of our memories in our head. En passant, photos have some explicit variations with texts and videos. Texts give us space to think, to draw a picture of memories our own following the theme of the author. When we read books, we don’t see images with our eyes, but in our minds. Videos, in contrast, demonstrate more alive memories than photos and texts, both. We can see exactly what happened in the past with our eyes and listen, with our ears. 3rd dimensional (3D) video provides perfection in reassembling memories. Diverse sorts of entertainment have risen based on videos. So, pictures have a decent balance. They’re not alive like videos but they offer a vivid illustration of our past, providing some space to imagine.   